# Pandoc: the perfect tool for writers

<!--
Explain and motivate why Pandoc is the tool for writters.  Whether you are a
science fiction writter or researcher, Pandoc fits there.

One can use Microsoft Word to write the document and generate
its ePub version ready to be submitted to online retailers.

One can write in Markdown and generate slides, well formatted PDF documents,
LaTeX documents, Microsoft Word, a website, etc. The possibilities are limitless.
-->

Pandoc is a tool for converting files from one format into another format.  For
example, Pandoc can convert a Microsoft Document DOCX into a PDF, ODT, Markdown
and even an ePub book.

This is the perfect tool for writers. You do not need to commit to any software,
buy a license nor use the specific software your publishing agency wants you to
use. You are effectively the owner of your tools.

Do you remember that scary feeling that you got when your editor, e.g.,
Microsoft Word (MS), freezes for a few seconds when you were writting your
thesis/book? Do you remember how it crashed and you lost those last editions
because you forgot to save just before the crash? You do not need to suffer it
anymore. Simple text editors do not need to do all the work that MS does. For
this reason, most basic text editors are more reliable than any fancy editor.

Simple text editors are great for writing but lack the ability to format your
text as you would like. They do not have neither bold nor italics fonts or even
support for mathematical formulas. They are simple.

In this book we opt for using simple tools with efficient languages. Markdown is
a really simple language that gives you the formatting power that simple text
editors lack. There are just a few special commands to format your text, so that
you are not distracted by how it looks but rather, by the content you produce.

You write your essay/book in Markdown and you use Pandoc to generate the format
that you are most interested in. Want to give away the first few chapters of
your book in PDF to your followers? Done. Want to give away the first few
chapters of your book in a website? Done. Want to generate and submit your book
to Amazon KDP program? Go ahead, you can convert your Markdown file into a DOCX,
if that is what they prefer, or your generated book in ePub format.

Tools that we rely on:

* Libre Office

* Pandoc

* Makefile

* Calibre
